# 3 ways micromanagement is hurting your startup
## March 1 2016

Everyone knows that micromanagement is bad. If you’re an employee, you hate being micromanaged. If you’re a CEO, you hate being known as a micromanager. But what appears to be a one-sided annoyance to the employee is actually a much deeper issue that could be keeping your company from getting off the ground. Here are three ways micromanagement could be hurting your startup:

## 1. It sucks precious time away from you

If you are a CEO, you know how much work your job is. Whether it’s drumming up support for a new product, meeting with stakeholders, or answering questions from your team, there is a never-ending pipeline of things for you to take care of. But let’s be clear about what your role as a CEO really is. Your role is to take responsibility for your startup and be an interface between stakeholders, the public, and the internals of the company. In the eyes of the stakeholders, you are wholly responsible for the success or failure of your company. How you achieve this is, for the most part, not of concern to the stakeholders. With this huge burden of responsibility you will naturally want to oversee every last detail of work that is being produced. You might even feel powerful and believe that you *should* oversee every last detail of work that is being produced. The problem now is that you are spending far less time on the thing that no one else is doing: communicating with stakeholders and the public. Falling out of touch with your investors and customers will make it extremely hard to please either of them.

## 2. It takes responsibility off your employees' shoulders

When you micromanage projects that you assign to your employees, you are effectively removing the weight of responsibility from the employee. If you are constantly analyzing an employee's work and injecting your own input, the employee will gradually lose the sense that the work she is producing is her own. For the sake of getting a project done the way you like it, this might not seem like a big deal. But by removing responsibility and ownership of work from the employee, you fail to leverage that person’s natural desire to produce good work. A person’s desire to prove his abilities, impress his boss, and feel like he is having an impact is a major driving force behind why he even shows up to work. If a person just feels like a tool performing a rigid task, the opportunity to impress and sense of impact go away, and likely the quality of work will decrease because the person no longer feels invested. By allowing your employees to feel ownership over their work, you are actually leveraging more brainpower and willpower to solve your problems and make your company successful.

## 3. It doesn’t scale

By overseeing the details of everything that everyone is doing, you have tied the operations of the company to yourself. Employees will look to you for constant direction because they know that you will inevitably tell them how they should be doing their jobs. As your company grows, it will become more difficult to manage each person in this way. You will grow frustrated and your employees will feel a lack of direction. You might even be reluctant to add people to your team because you are concerned you don’t have the time to manage them. This is the wrong way to think about what a team is. The team is supposed to be taking work off of your shoulders, and you need to allow them to do that. Otherwise, scaling up your company while maintaining structural integrity will be near impossible.

## How should you remedy this?

I’m going to use some programmer language and say that you need to **build your company to an interface** and not to a concrete implementation. An interface defines *what* should be done, and the implementation takes care of *how* it should be done. Good programmers like to write code according to interfaces because it means that different implementations can be swapped in and out and the program will still compile and perform the tasks it is expected to. One of the keys that makes this possible is that the implementation is responsible for doing the work and all the interface does is define inputs and deliverables. In the case of a company, the interface is the stuff that your company is expected to produce and the implementation is the people.

Another way to think about this is a tree structure where child nodes represent implementations of their parent nodes. With low-level tasks at the bottom and CEO responsibilities at the top, each layer of the tree abstracts the layer beneath it. Programmers know that algorithms that use tree structures can be implemented recursively (only a few lines of code are needed to access and manipulate a huge set of data), and this principle can help make your company scalable.

For a CEO, this means you should be concerned with *what* is being done but not *how* it’s being done. This will require creating documentation that describes what each section of your company is expected to produce and coming up with good qualitative and quantitative ways to measure it. Leaving the “how” to your employees will take weight off your shoulders, leverage their brainpower, and allow your company to scale because everyone is taking responsibility for their own work. When all of this comes together, you’ll find you are able to spend more of your time communicating with stakeholders and better able to deliver on their expectations.
