# How to configure your Elastic Beanstalk app to use HTTPS
## April 30 2017

I recently had the pleasure of upgrading a web app to be able to take payments. In order to do this safely, the app needed to support HTTPS instead of plain old HTTP. Luckily, I discovered that in today’s day and age adding HTTPS support to your web application is quite simple if you’re running on Amazon’s Elastic Beanstalk platform.

After a few hours of reading separate docs about how to accomplish different sub-tasks, I’ve consolidated the process into three steps. This guide assumes that you already have a web application running on Elastic Beanstalk and that you have some familiarity with the AWS console.

## 1. Get an SSL certificate from AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)

Amazon offers SSL certificates for free through ACM. The process is pretty painless compared to paying a company for a certificate.

- From the main AWS console, select **Certificate Manager** under **Security, Identity, & Compliance**.
- Click **Get Started** and follow the steps.

I used this link for help when getting started: https://aws.amazon.com/certificate-manager/getting-started/

Ultimately Amazon will send you a validation email with some directions to follow, but where it sends the email can be tricky. Check out this doc for help: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/acm/latest/userguide/gs-acm-validate.html.

In my case, I wound up having to create the email address "admin@xxxxx.com" from my domain provider and set it to forward to my normal daily email address so I could received the validation email.

After you receive the email and follow the steps, you should see that you now have a certificate with status issued in the Certificate Manager console.

## 2. Tell your load balancer to use HTTPS

- Navigate over to the Elastic Beanstalk console and click on your app.
- Once inside your app’s dashboard, click on **Configuration** in the left menu.
- Scroll down to the section called **Network Tier** and click on the cog icon in the **Load Balancing** box.
- Set the **Secure listener port** to 443 and the **Protocol** to HTTPS.
- DO NOT turn port 80 off!
- Select your SSL certificate from the **SSL certificate ID** dropdown. Since you got the certificate through ACM, it should just be there in the dropdown list.

This link was helpful: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/latest/dg/configuring-https-elb.html

## 3. Tell your app to redirect to HTTPS if it receives a request over plain HTTP

When I first tried to set up HTTPS, I followed the steps that I outlined in the previous section, but I turned off port 80. I thought this would be fine since I wanted users to use the secure port anyway. However, turning off port 80 caused any requests that didn’t explicitly include *https://* in the URL to just hang forever.

The solution is to leave port 80 on, but have requests to port 80 redirected back to the secure HTTPS port.

Amazon has a great doc describing what you need to do to support redirects: https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/redirect-http-https-elb/

This part requires some coding or configuration of your web server. My app was written with Node.js and Express, so my example will use those. You should be able to apply the concept to any technology though.

In Express, I added a middleware early in the stack that checks for the `x-forwarded-proto` header, and if the value is "http" it redirects the request:

```js
// redirect to https
app.use(function(req, res, next) {
  let protocol = req.headers['x-forwarded-proto'];
  if (protocol === 'http') {
    res.redirect(`https://${req.hostname}${req.originalUrl}`);
  } else {
    next();
  }
});
```

After I added this code and deployed my app, HTTPS was working like a charm and the Chrome address bar was showing the “Secure” icon.

That’s it!
