# An argument for reading programming books
## August 15 2018

Recently a young man visited my office to shadow some software developers. He
works in a non-technical role at my company, but is interested in becoming a
professional developer. The young man asked for recommendations for good
programming books. One of my coworkers quickly
fired back, "I don't recommend reading books. The best way to learn is to find
some tutorials online and go through them. Most books are already out-of-date
anyway."

I hear this sentiment a lot-- that programming books go out of date quickly,
and therefore they're not worth reading. The first part of that statement is
very often true. The second part, however, I wholeheartedly disagree with. There
are some very good reasons to read programming books, even if the books are out of
date. Some of my deepest knowledge about software development has come from
books, some of which were out-of-date. So, here are three reasons why programming books are,
in fact, worth reading.

## 1. Historical context
History is important. The history of computer systems is no different.
There are many reasons why knowing the history of the programming language
you're using will benefit you. For starters, you may work with people who have
been in the field for many years. These people learned the language before the
"latest" features were added to it. Understanding which features are new, which
ones are old, and which features have been outright replaced might
improve your ability to communicate with members of your team who predate you.

Historical context may also help you understand why the language is the way it
is. Knowing the "why" behind a programming language, not just the "what" and the
"how", will give you a deeper understanding of the tools that you're using.

When looked at through this lens, out-of-date books can serve as a great source
of historical context.

## 2. End-to-end coverage of a subject
Books tend to be written in a way that offers a comprehensive overview
of a particular subject matter. Reading a book is virtually the equivalent of taking a
course. Many courses are, in fact, modeled around books. By reading a book
about, say Python, you're going to probably walk away with a relatively comprehensive
overview of the capablities and features of Python.

Simply knowing that you've been presented with a complete overview of a subject
can significantly increase your confidence when working within that domain. On
the flip side, when you know that there are things that you don't know about
a subject, you wind up constantly second-guessing yourself that there might be a
better way to do what you're trying to do. When you've been given a complete
overview of the subject, you know exactly where to dig in deeper when you're
presented with a problem that's outside your typical area of expertise.

## 3. Primary source of information
Do you want to be a casual user of a technology, or do you want to be an
expert? When you read tutorials online, do you ever wonder how the person
who wrote the tutorial became so knowledgeable about the subject? I would
venture to guess that they probably read a book! Or they took a course,
which was probably based around a book! Or they read the source code/docs/specification
for the framework that the tutorial is about, which is also a
great way to learn! The point is, eventually you want to get your knowledge
from a primary source. Tutorials can be a great way to start building
something quickly, but if you want to be as knowledgeable about a subject as
the person who is teaching the subject, you will eventually want to read
some primary sources. Books are primary sources of information, whereas
tutorials are just regurgitated, applied knowledge.

Reading books will not automatically make you a good developer. You become a
good developer by writing a lot of code, and tutorials might help you there.
But if you care about becoming a great developer with deep knowledge and
superior communication skills, then books will probably play an important role
in your journey.
