# Books that have made me a better developer
## August 30 2018

Following up my last post, it makes sense to list some of the books I've read
that have made me a better developer. So here they are, in order of importance.

## 1. The C Programming Language - *Kernighan and Ritchie*
This is a must read for any developer. I haven't written a C program since doing
the exercises in this book (which are worth it!), but I am undoubtedly a
better developer for reading it. So many idioms in modern programming come from
this book. And even if you never have to use a pointer in your life, knowing
what they are, and more importantly, what they mean in terms of the organization
of computers, will give you a more grounded perspective when writing your
next program.

## 2. Algorithms - *Sedgewick and Wayne*
This book has a corresponding course on Coursera, which is excellent, and a booksite with plenty of supplementary information. You would get an introduction to algorithms and data structures in
an undergraduate computer science program, but if you are getting into
programming without a CS degree, this book/course is a must.

## 3. JavaScript: The Good Parts - *Crockford*
No book has given me a better fundamental understanding of how to write
JavaScript than this one. Crockford doesn't even dive deep into the internals of
JavaScript, but the way he organizes the information has been how my own brain
has organized it ever since. This book is pushing 10 years old, but I believe it
to be a critical read if you want to be an expert level JavaScript developer.

## 4. Learning SQL - *Beaulieu*
I read this book in a single weekend and yet can still recall most information
from its pages. That's how well it teaches the SQL language, and relational
databases in general. Most of my SQL knowledge comes from this book, and most
people I meet don't know as much SQL as I do (I'm no DBA, but most people just don't know much SQL!).

## 5. TCP/IP - *Casad*
It can be super easy to gloss over a topic like TCP/IP when you're learning to
build a web application, but if you want to be a *serious* web developer, you
will need to have a firm grasp of the underlying protocols that make the
internet work. I can't say that this book is amazing, but it got the job done
in exposing me to the fundamentals of TCP/IP.

## 6. Learning the bash Shell - *Newham and Rosenblatt*
Most developers know at least a little bit about how to use a shell. It's unavoidable. But being *good* at using a bash shell can be extremely useful, especially if you have to interact with remote machines. This book provides a solid overview. 

## 7. Express in Action - *Hahn*
The official documentation for the Express framework can get you up and running, but it wasn't until I read this book that I really understood how Express works.

## 8. Secrets of the JavaScript Ninja - *Resig, Bibeault, Maras*
This is the book to read if you want to get into the real nitty-gritty of JavaScript. Written by Jon Resig himself, the book will give you plenty of material to become the JavaScript expert in your office.


