# There are two types of people
## March 31 2018

I’m going to describe a very simple scenario. You’re walking down the hallway of
your office. You turn the corner and see a colleague coming toward you who
you’ve never met. As they come near you, you make brief eye contact and a little
part of your brain flickers. Should you say hello? Or perhaps they’ll say hello?
It feels like a bold move to say hello, so you hold off. They say nothing. You
pass each other and nothing transpires and you both go about your day.

Let’s reimagine that. You’re walking down the hallway, turn the corner, and see
a colleague coming toward you. You wonder if you should say hello, but you hold
off. They say “Hi there, how are you?” You respond “Hi! Good, thanks, and you?”
You see them again later and a real conversation transpires and you get to know
each other.

There are two types of people: people who wait for things to happen, and people
who make things happen. In the first scenario, you and your colleague were both
waiting for something to happen, yet neither of you took the first step to
initiate. In the second scenario, your colleague initiated a hello, and you were
both better off for it. People like that are the reason that things happen in
world, whether it’s something as small as building a relationship with a
colleague at work, or something as large as building rockets to go to mars.
These people initiate and the rest of us benefit. These people are what we call
“leaders”. Leadership means taking the first step.
